when you visit a brewery you're likely
to find some hot plants nearby like we
do here rogues Harbor the hot plant is a
vine like perennial that produces a seed
somewhat resembling a pinecone now the
seed cone is what Brewers used to add
bittering flavor to beer hops can also
add a floral aroma to the beverage hops
are a very Hardy plant to grow widely
across the u.s. in fact prior to
Prohibition in the 1930s New York State
was the largest hop producer in the
country unfortunately the prohibitions
movement virtually wiped out hops as a
cash crop and then only within the last
few years the New York hop farming has
started to come back with an interest in
keeping it green around here we've
hooked up with some of our local hop
growers to provide us with some fresh
local hops during this fall's harvest I
was invited to visit a couple of these
growers to see what goes down on the
farm we hand-picked these it tends to be
very labor intense so for the next two
weeks we'll be living our lives out here
hops are not like an apple you can't
pick a hop put it in a bin and come back
a week later and they're good a hop goes
bad in 24 hours of being picked so we
have to process this hop or at least
start the processing immediately right
when we pick these hops we literally
walk up about every half hour and start
dumping our containers into the drying
room to get them to start the processing
immediately then what we have to do is
we have to grind them then at that point
in time we take the ground
pop and pour it through into a hopper
which is a big funnel if you will and it
feeds it into the pellet Iser which
basically shoves has a die with a bunch
of little holes the size of rabbit
pellets
and it shows them compresses it into
these dyes and then at the bottom it
kicks off the pellets there are a few
styles of beer that use whole hops but
for the most part breweries use hops
that are impressing these pellets
now how pop pellets are easier to
measure have much longer shelf life and
can be used in the brewing process
without any special equipment although
New York State hop farming is on the
rise breweries get the bulk of their
hops from farms from Germany Great
Britain and on the west coast of the
United States while New York State hop
farming is not widespread I met another
grower over on the west side of Cayuga
Lake who I think's got the right idea
when it comes to starting a hop farm now
as you can see all of these here have
been harvested already this year
and this is what's left of the nugget we
started planning these four rows right
here last year they went in the ground
April 15th of 2010 so these are still
young second-year plants they're not
fully material being a three year
maturity after year three these plants
should produce one pound of dried hops
per plant and I have just 5,000 plants
in it planted right now do you mean
ready for harvest there's a couple
different ways one is the scientific way
of measuring your moisture or you can if
you roll them against your ear you can
hear that create paper sound and that's
very close and you also want to peel
open the cone when that turns from a
yellow to a bright gold color like it is
right there
and then the smell of it that's some so
these are ready to pick and send to the
dryer I want to thank my friends Tim and
Todd for inviting me out to their farms
to see what it takes to grow hops in New
York State now if you want to try some
local beer with some fresh local hops
just come on out to rogues Harbor and
have a plane
you